.TH zmq_api_thread 3 "" "(c)2007-2008 FastMQ Inc." "0MQ User Manuals"
.SH NAME
zmq::api_thread_t \- proxy object for the application thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
.nf
#include <zmq.hpp>

namespace zmq
{
    enum scope_t
    {
        scope_local,
        scope_process,
        scope_global
    };

    class api_thread_t
    {
        static api_thread_t *create (dispatcher_t *dispatcher, i_locator *locator);
        int create_exchange (
            const char *exchange,
            scope_t scope = scope_local,
            const char *interface = NULL,
            poll_thread_t *listener_thread = NULL,
            int handler_thread_count = 0,
            poll_thread_t **handler_threads = NULL);
        int create_queue (
            const char *queue,
            scope_t scope_ = scope_local,
            const char *interface = NULL,
            poll_thread_t *listener_thread = NULL,
            int handler_thread_count = 0,
            poll_thread_t **handler_threads = NULL);
        void bind (const char *exchange, const char *queue,
            poll_thread_t *exchange_thread, poll_thread_t *queue_thread);
        void send (int exchange_id, message_t &msg);
        void presend (int exchange_id, message_t &msg);
        void flush ();
        int receive (message_t *msg, bool block = true);
    };
}
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The API thread is a proxy for an application thread to access 0MQ functionality.
For each of your application threads that needs to use 0MQ you should create
an instance of the api_thread class.
.SH ENUMS
.IP "\fBscope_local\fP"
Local scope means that the object (exchange or queue) is visible only within
the engine that created it.
.IP "\fBscope_process\fP"
Process scope means that the object is visible to all the engines within
the process registered with the same dispatcher object.
.IP "\fBscope_global\fP"
Global scope means that the object is visible to all the 0MQ processes
registered with the same
.BR zmq_server (1).
.SH METHODS
.IP "\fBstatic api_thread_t *create (dispatcher_t *dispatcher, i_locator *locator)\fP"
Creates an API thread and plugs it into the supplied
.IR dispatcher
object. Note that you don't destroy the API thread manually.
Rather it'll be destroyed when the
.IR dispatcher
it is attached to is destroyed.  The
.IR locator
argument specifies the locator object to use when registering and looking
for objects (exchanges and queues).
.IP "\fBint create_exchange (const char *exchange, scope_t scope = scope_local, const char *interface = NULL, poll_thread_t *listener_thread = NULL, int handler_thread_count = 0, poll_thread_t **handler_threads = NULL)\fP
Creates an exchange. The name of the exchange to create is specified by the
.IR exchange
parameter.  The
.IR scope
parameter specifies visibility of the exchange (see
.IR scope_t
enumeration above). If the exchange is being created with local or process
scope, subsequent parameters do not need to be specified. If it is created with
global scope they are mandatory.  The
.IR interface
parameter specifies the network interface card used to pass outgoing traffic
from this exchange.  It is either the IP address of the NIC or its symbolic
name. Optionally, the port can be specified this way: 'eth0:5555'. If the port
is not specified, an unused port will automatically be used.  The
.IR listener_thread
parameter specifies which I/O thread should process connection requests
(when other parties are binding to this exchange). Once the connection
is established the traffic will be handled by one of the I/O threads supplied
in the
.IR handler_threads
array.  The size of the array is specified by the
.IR handler_thread_count
parameter. Newly created connections are distributed between handler threads
in a round-robin manner.
.IP "\fBint create_queue (const char *queue, scope_t scope = scope_local, const char *interface = NULL, poll_thread_t *listener_thread = NULL, int handler_thread_count = 0, poll_thread_t **handler_threads = NULL)\fP
Creates a queue. The name of the queue to create is specified by the
.IR queue
parameter.  The
.IR scope
parameter specifies the visibility of the queue (see
.IR scope_t
the enumeration above). If the queue is being created with local or process
scope, subsequent parameters do not need to be specified. If it is created
with global scope they are mandatory.  The
.IR interface
parameter specifies the network interface card used to pass incoming traffic
to this queue. It is either the IP address of the NIC or its symbolic name.
Optionally, the port can be specified this way: 'eth0:5555'. If the port
is not specified, an unused port will automatically is used.  The
.IR listener_thread
parameter specifies which I/O thread should process connection requests
(when other parties are binding to this queue). Once the connection
is established the traffic will be handled by one of the I/O threads
supplied in the
.IR handler_threads
array. The zize of the array is specified by the
.IR handler_thread_count
parameter. Newly created connections are distributed between handler threads
in a round-robin manner.
.IP "\fBvoid bind (const char *exchange, const char *queue, poll_thread_t *exchange_thread, poll_thread_t *queue_thread)\fP
Binds
.IR queue
to
.IR exchange .
Binding means that messages sent to the
.IR exchange
will be forwarded to the
.IR queue .
If the
.IR exchange
is in a different process the
.IR exchange_thread
parameter specifies which I/O thread should be used to handle the network
traffic. If the
.IR queue
resides in a different process the
.IR queue_thread
parameter specifies which I/O thread should be used to handle the network
traffic.
.IP "\fBvoid send (int exchange_id, message_t &msg)\fP
Sends a message to exchange specified by the
.IR exchange_id
parameter. The exchange ID is the ID returned by the
.IR create_exchange
method. The
.IR msg
object will be cleared in this function - it'll represent 0-byte long messages
after the call. If there are any pending pre-sent messages pending,
.IR send
will flush them immediately so that the correct message ordering
will be retained.
.IP "\fBvoid presend (int exchange_id, message_t &msg)\fP"
Identical to
.IR send 
except that the message specified by the
.IR msg
parameter won't be sent immediately, rather it'll wait till next call to
.IR flush
or
.IR send .
Presend can be used when there are several sends required in a single business
transaction. This way the processing can be made more efficient. For example,
0MQ 'exchange' example uses
.IR presend
to send all the replies (confirmation, trades, stock quotes) to a single stock
order in one go. However, use
.IR presend
only if you are striving for messaging rates of 1,000,000 messages a second
or higher. For lower message rates the performance effect of presending is
almost unmeasurable.
.IP "\fBvoid flush ()\fP
Flushes all the pre-sent messages to their destinations (see
.IR presend
method).
.IP "\fBint receive (message_t *msg, bool block = true)\fP"
Gets a message from 0MQ.  The message will be stored in the object pointed to by
.IR msg
parameter.  The old content of the object will be destoyed silently. By default
(when the
.IR block
parameter is set to true) if no message is immediately available, this method
waits for the next message to arrive. If
.IR block
is false, the method returns immediately even if there is no message availabe.
The return value is the ID of the queue the message was received from
(queue ID is returned by the
.IR create_queue
method) or 0 in case no message was retrieved.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <zmq.hpp>
using namespace zmq;

int main ()
{
    dispatcher_t dispatcher (2);
    locator_t locator ("localhost");
    poll_thread_t *pt = poll_thread_t::create (&dispatcher);
    api_thread_t *api = api_thread_t::create (&dispatcher, &locator);
    int eid = api->create_exchange ("E", scope_global, "eth0", pt, 1, &pt);
    api->create_queue ("Q", scope_global, "eth0", pt, 1, &pt);
    api->bind ("E", "Q", pt, pt);

    message_t msg_out (10);
    memset (msg_out.data (), 0, msg_out.size ());
    api->send (eid, msg_out);

    message_t msg_in;
    api->receive (&msg_in);
}
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Sustrik <sustrik at fastmq dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR zmq_dispatcher (3),
.BR zmq_poll_thread (3),
.BR zmq_message (3) 
