.TH zmq::message_t 3 "" "(c)2007-2009 FastMQ Inc." "0MQ User Manuals"
.SH NAME
zmq::message_t \- class encapulating 0MQ message
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
.nf
#include <zmq.hpp>

namespace zmq
{
    enum {
        message_data,
        message_gap
    };

    typedef void (free_fn) (void *data_);

    class message_t
    {
        message_t (size_t size = 0);
        message_t (void *data, size_t size, free_fn *ffn);
        ~message_t ();
        void rebuild (size_t size);
        void rebuild (void *data, size_t size, free_fn *ffn);
        void move_to (message_t *msg);
        void copy_to (message_t *msg);
        uint32_t type ();
        void *data ();
        size_t size ();
    };
}
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The message class encapsulates a 0MQ message.  A message is a blob.  The message
class implements various optimisations that make creation and transfer of the
blob as fast as possible.
.SH METHODS
.IP "\fBmessage_t (size_t size = 0)\fP"
Creates a message
.IR size
bytes long. The content of the message is uninitialised i.e. it may contain
bogus data. It is the user's responsibility to fill-in the content. Use this
constructor without filling the
.IR size
parameter in if you are creating a message object to serve as destination when
receiving a message.
.IP "\fBmessage_t (void *data, size_t size, free_fn *ffn)\fP"
Creates a message from supplied buffer. The buffer is identified by the
.IR data
parameter (pointer to the buffer), the
.IR size
parameter (size of the buffer) and the
.IR ffn
parameter (function that 0MQ will use to deallocate the buffer once it doesn't
need it). If
.IR ffn
is NULL no deallocation will happen - this is useful for sending data stored
in static buffers.
.IP "\fB~message_t ()\fP"
Deallocates the message.
.IP "\fBvoid rebuild (size_t size)\fP"
Destroys the existing content of the message and replaces it with a message
.IR size
bytes long. The content of the message is uninitialised i.e. it may contain
bogus data. It is the user's responsibility to fill-in the content.
.IP "\fBvoid rebuild (void *data, size_t size, free_fn *ffn)\fP"
Destroys the existing content of the message and replaces it with a message
created from the supplied buffer.  The buffer is identified by the
.IR data
parameter (pointer to the buffer), the
.IR size
parameter (size of the buffer) and the
.IR ffn
parameter (function that 0MQ will use to deallocate the buffer once it doesn't
need it). If
.IR ffn
is NULL no deallocation will happen - this is useful for sending standard
messages stored in static buffers.
.IP "\fBvoid move_to (message_t *msg)\fP"
Moves the content of the message to the message identified by the
.IR msg
parameter.  The original message will be truncated to 0 bytes in the process.
.IP "\fBvoid copy_to (message_t *msg)\fP"
Copies the content of the message to the message identified by the
.IR msg
parameter. The message content is not necessarily copied, the operation may be
handled by copying pointer and increasing reference count of the message.
Thus the content of the message shouldn't be changed after it has been copied.
.IP "\fBuint32_t *type ()\fP"
Returns type of the message. In the case the message is raw data message
returned value equals to
.IR message_data
constant. If the message is a gap notification (message specifying that some
messages may be missing at the particular point of the queue) return value
equals to
.IR message_gap
constant.
.IP "\fBvoid *data ()\fP"
Returns pointer to the message data. It can be used both to read and write
the message content. Don't store the pointer for extended periods of time.
Rather retrieve it from the message object each time you need it.
.IP "\fBsize_t size ()\fP"
Returns size of the message data (in bytes).
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
    ...
    message_t msg (10);
    memset (msg.data (), 0, msg.size ());
    api->send (exchange_id, msg);
    ...

    ...
    message_t msg;
    api->receive (&msg);
    memcpy (destination, msg.data (), msg.size ());
    ...
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Sustrik <sustrik at fastmq dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR zmq_api_thread (3)
