.TH zmq-tests-build 7 "23. march 2009" "(c)2007-2009 FastMQ Inc." "0MQ tests \
User Manuals"
.SH NAME
0MQ tests \- a performance measurement test suite
.SH INTRODUCTION
tests is a pre-prepared performance measurement test suite, that you can build
and run in a simple manner. The results should give you some idea of what are 
the latencies and throughputs of 0MQ on your network. tests also measures 
performance metrics for raw TCP, so that you know what share of latency should 
be attributed to 0MQ and what to TCP and underlying layers. tests performance 
measurement suite is a convenient way of examining behavior of TCP and 0MQ 
latencies and throughputs aggregates with different message sizes involved.
.PP
tests consist of three directories:
.TP 16
.BR scenarios 
- directory with prepared scenario header files
.TP 16
.BR tcp 
- TCP latency and throughput tests
.TP
.BR zmq
- 0MQ latency and throughput tests
.SH COMPILING TEST SUITE
tests are compiled during the build process, however ./configure has to be run 
with \-\-with\-perf switch. configure summary should look like this (have a 
look at performance tests addon status):
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./configure --with-perf
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for gawk... no

 ... etc ...

0MQ install dir: /usr/local
libzmq extesions:
  SCTP: no
  OpenPGM: no
  AMQP: no

Utilities:
  zmq_server: yes
  cpu frequency estimator: yes

Addons:
  manual pages: yes
  performance tests: yes (gettime)
  camera example: no
  stock exchange example: no
  chartoom example: no

  C language binding: no
  Python language binding: no
  Java language binding: no
.fi
\fP
.RE
When configure is ready, run make:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ make
.fi
\fP
.RE
There are files prefixed with 'local' and 'remote' located in perf/tests/tcp 
and /perf/tests/zmq directories. To get idea of 'local' and 'remote' 
terminology refer to \fBzmq\-throughput\fR(7) and \fBzmq\-latency\fR(7).
.PP
Note that perf tests binaries are not installed during make install procedure. 
Therefore they can be run only from source directory. If you are planing to 
run perf tests on multiple machines consider using --disable-shared configure 
switch. Configuring 0MQ as a static library makes transferring test binaries 
across hosts easier and avoids confusion if there is older version of the 0MQ
library installed on the destination system. Moreover, there is no need to 
perform any installation procedures and all the tests can be run directly from 
the source tree.
.SH CUSTOMISATION
To use RTDSC for time measurements, CXXFLAGS has to be set properly before 
runing ./configure. To estimate your CPU frequency with high accuracy provided 
\fBestimate_cpu_freq\fR(1) binary can be used.
.PP
Switch perf to use RDTSC as follows (x86 only):
.PP
.RS 4
Configure 0MQ package with --with--perf switch. On x86 platform 
\fBestimate_cpu_freq\fR(1) binary should be automatically compiled. 
Carefully check ./configure summary. Look for cpu frequency estimator status 
(should be yes) and performance tests status (should be yes). Time measurement 
method going to be used in whole perf framework is displayed next to the 
performance tests status - should be gettime in our case. 
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./configure --with-perf
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for gawk... no

 ... etc ...

Addons:
  manual pages: yes
  performance tests: yes (gettime)

 ... etc ...
.fi
\fP
.RE
When configure is ready, run make:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ make
.fi
\fP
.RE
Run \fBestimate_cpu_freq\fR(1) to measure your CPU frequency: 
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./perf/helpers/estimate_cpu_freq
CPU frequency measured with busy loop: 2009147377 [Hz]
CPU frequency measured with sleep: 2009138406 [Hz]

Please export CXXFLAGS=-DPERF_CPU_FREQUENCY=2009142891 and run
configure and make in the top of the source tree again.
.fi
\fP
.RE
Export proper CXXFLAGS and configure 0MQ package \-with\-perf switch again 
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ export CXXFLAGS=-DPERF_CPU_FREQUENCY=2009142891 
$ ./configure --with-perf
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes

 ... etc ...

Addons:
  manual pages: yes
  performance tests: yes (rtdsc)

 ... etc ...
.fi
\fP
.RE
Compile 0MQ package. Note that time measurement method is now set to rtdsc.
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ make
.fi
\fP
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR estimate_cpu_freq (1),
.BR zmq\-throughput (7), 
.BR zmq\-latency (7), 
.BR zmq\-tests (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Pavol Malosek <malosek at fastmq dot com>
