.TH zmq\-tests 7 "23. march 2009" "(c)2007\-2009 FastMQ Inc." "0MQ tests \
User Manuals"
.SH NAME
0MQ tests \- a performance measurement test suite
.SH INTRODUCTION
0MQ test is a collection of pre\-prepared latency and throughput performance 
measurement tests for 0MQ. The tests are automating latency and throughput 
tests for different message sizes. It is a convenient way to investigate 0MQ 
performance.
.SH TESTS
.TP
.B Throughput test
.TP
.B Latency test 
.SH FILES
Files are located in perf/tests/zmq directory.
.TP 16
.BR local_thr.cpp
\- 'local' program for throughput test 
.TP 16
.BR remote_thr.cpp
\- 'remote' program for throughput test
.TP 16
.BR local_lat.cpp
\- 'local' program for latency test
.TP 16
.BR remote_lat.cpp 
\- 'remote' program for latency test
.SH COMPILING THE TESTS
All 0MQ tests are build as a integral part of perf test suite. For detailed 
info please refer to the 
.BR zmq\-tests\-build(7) 
man page.
.PP
Note that in the case of two identical hosts we can compile both binaries on a
single host and distribute one of them to the other host afterwards. Different 
situation is when perf is compiled with PERF_CPU_FREQUENCY macro defined and 
obviously, CPU frequency has to be measured and perf compiled on each box 
separately.
.SH RUNNING THE TESTS
In the following tests two physical hosts are used. The host running 'local' 
program has IP address 10.0.0.1 (eth1); the host running 'remote' has IP 
address 10.0.0.2 (eth1).
.PP
Note that 0MQ transport needs \fBzmq_server\fR(1) running somewhere on the 
network. In our case zmq_server will be running on host 10.0.0.1.
.PP
All binaries used in the tests (except zmq_server) are located in 
perf/tests/zmq directory.
.PP
First start \fBzmq_server\fR(1) on local host (10.0.0.1):
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ zmq_server
.fi
\fP
.RE
Note that \fBzmq_server\fR(7) uses default port of 5682.
.SS Throughput test
To run the throughput test with messages 6 B long and 500000 messages in the 
test first start the local_thr binary on local host (10.0.0.1). Parameters are
hostname of zmq_server, IP address or name of local network interface to use 
for exchange, IP address or name of local network interface to use for queue, 
message size [B] and number of messages in the test:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./local_thr 10.0.0.1 eth1 eth1 6 500000
.fi
\fP
.RE
Then start the remote_thr binary on the remote machine (10.0.0.2). Parameters 
are the hostname of zmq_server, message size [B] and number of messages in the 
test:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./remote_thr 10.0.0.1 6 500000
.fi
\fP
.RE
Following text should appear on the screen where local_thr runs:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
message size: 6 [B]
message count: 500000
Your average throughput is 3523931 [msg/s]
Your average throughput is 169 [Mb/s]
.fi
\fP
.RE
After successful test execution tests.dat file should be created / appended on 
local host. Refer to the Postprocessing chapter in the \fBzmq\-throughput\fR(7) 
scenario man page for more details about tests.dat file format.
.SS Latency test
To run the latency test with messages 6 B long and 50000 messages in the test,
first start the local_lat binary on local host (10.0.0.1). Parameters are 
hostname of zmq_server, IP address or name of local network interface to use 
for the exchange, IP address or name of local network interface to use for the 
queue, message size [B] and number of messages in the test:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./local_lat 10.0.0.1 eth1 eth1 6 50000
.fi
\fP
.RE
Then start the remote_lat binary on the remote machine (10.0.0.2). Parameters 
are hostname of zmq_server, message size [B] and number of messages in the 
test:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./remote_lat 10.0.0.1 6 50000
.fi
\fP
.RE
Following text should appear on the screen where local_lat runs:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
message size: 6 [B]
roundtrip count: 50000
Your average latency is 52.00 [us]
.fi
\fP
.RE
After successful test execution there should be one line appended to tests.dat
on local host. Refer to the Postprocessing chapter in the \fBzmq\-latency\fR(7) 
scenario man page more details about tests.dat file format.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
zmq\-throughput(7), zmq\-latency(7), zmq\-tests\-build(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Pavol Malosek <malosek at fastmq dot com>
