.TH zmq-perf 7 "23. march 2009" "(c)2007-2009 FastMQ Inc." "0MQ perf User \
Manuals"
.SH NAME
0MQ perf \- a performance measurement framework

.SH INTRODUCTION
perf project aims to measure performance statistics for a whole range of 
messaging products, beginning with simple TCP/IP transfer and ranging to 
complex proprietary middleware. perf measures end-to-end statistics and 
adheres to all principles described in Measuring messaging performance 
document \&[1]\&.

.SH DESIGN
perf (in the same way as 0MQ) is a pluggable architecture, LEGO-like set 
of building bricks user can put together to create a specific performance
test. 0MQ-related tests are supplied with the perf and built automatically
by 0MQ build system.
.PP
When you want to do a performance measurement create new source file (.cpp), 
include all the components (in form of .hpp files) you want to use, plug them 
together in a simple and well documented way and compile the whole thing. 
perf framework consists of two main components:
.PP
.RS 8
\f(CR
.nf
                  -------------------------------------------
                 |                                           |
                 |        ******************************     |
                 |        *        Main program        *     |
                 |        ******************************     |
                 |               |(initializes)  |(runs)     |
                 |               V               V           |
                 |        *************    *************     |
(messages) <==== | ====>  * transport *<-->* scenario  *     |
                 |        *************    *************     |
                 |                               |           |
                  -------------------------------------------
                                                 |
                                                 V
                                             (dat file)
.fi
\fP
.RE
.PP 
Transport
.RS 4
Transport component is a wrapper for the messaging system being tested. It 
interfaces the transport with the rest of the system in the coherent and 
uniform way. Transport component is initialised manually from the main routine.
This way there doesn't have to be standard set of arguments to initialise all 
transports \- each transport can be initialised in its unique way. Each 
transport has to implement i_transport interface which virtualises it to the 
rest of the framework.
.PP
Transport is either written by user or chosen from existing set of transports 
provided by perf framework. Currently perf framework supports following 
transports:
.PP
.RS 4
* TCP/IP transport
.PP
* 0MQ transport \- \fBzmq-transport\fR(7)
.RE
.RE
.PP 
Scenario
.RS 4
The 'transport' component described above encapsulates only message transfer 
semantics as such, not caring about actual message flows, message sizes or the
number of messages sent. These aspects of the test are defined by 'scenario' 
component.
.PP
Scenario component controls what the test program does. It invokes individual 
methods of the transport component, generates timestamps at defined pipeline 
points, saves them to the output files and calculate results.
.PP
As for the messaging, there are always at least two parties involved \- a 
publisher (sender) and a consumer (receiver). From simplified user perspective 
one party can be called 'local' and the other side 'remote'. The rule of the 
thumb is that 'local' has to be started first and 'remote' only after 'local' 
is already running. Also, 'local' will deliver the test results.
.PP
The mechanism of how these two parties interact each with another is 
specified by scenario. There are two scenarios defined in perf framework:
.PP
.RS 4
* Throughput scenario \- \fBzmq-throughput\fR(7)
.PP
* Latency scenario \- \fBzmq-latency\fR(7)
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR zmq\-transport (7), 
.BR zmq\-throughput (7), 
.BR zmq\-latency (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Pavol Malosek <malosek at fastmq dot com>
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
Measuring messaging performance document
.RS 4
\%http://www.zeromq.org/whitepapers:measuring\-performance
.RE
