.TH zmq\-latency 7 "23. march 2009" "(c)2007\-2009 FastMQ Inc." "0MQ perf User \
Manuals"
.SH NAME
0MQ latency scenario

.SH LATENCY SCENARIO
Latency is measured by sending single message back and forth between two 
components over and over again. Timestamps are taken at the beginning of the 
test and at the end of the test, meaning that we don't know latency for each 
individual message. Average one\-way latency is computed by dividing overall 
time of the test by twice the roundtrip count. This test yields less distorted 
results compared to the test where timestamps would be acquired for each 
message. Figure shows detailed implementations of such a measuring in perf 
framework:
.PP
\f(CR
.nf
                         *******************
                         *    zmq_server   *
                         *******************

    *******[ local ]*******                *******[ remote ]******
    *                     *            (1.)*                     *
    * args: message size  *===============>* args: message size  *
    *       message count *            (2.)*       message count *
    * scenario: lat       *<===============* scenario: lat       *
    * transport: 0MQ, TCP *                * transport: 0MQ, TCP *
    *                     *                *                     *
    ***********************                ***********************
              |
              |
              V
           tests.dat file
.fi
\fP
.TP
.BR remote
Executable that calls scenario function \f(BIremote_lat\fP with chosen transport.
.TP
.BR local 
Executable that calls scenario function \f(BIlocal_lat\fP with chosen transport.
.TP
.BR tests.dat
Output file local program will add one line to. The format of the line is: 0, 
roundtrip count, msg size [B], test time [ms], latency [us]. 
.SH EXAMPLE
First, you have to choose which transport mechanism you are going to use. Check
transports directory for the available set of transports. You can write your 
own transport if none of the existing suits you. In this example, we'll choose
0MQ to be our transport mechanism.
.PP
Next, you have to choose number of messages to be transported from local to 
remote and back and size of the message. We will run this scenario with message
6 byte long and roundtrip count of 50000.
.PP
In this example we will use two physical hosts. The host running 'local' 
program has IP address 10.0.0.1; the host running 'remote' has IP address 
10.0.0.2.
.PP
Note that 0MQ transport needs \fBzmq_server\fR(1) running somewhere on the 
network, so run it say on host 10.0.0.1 before starting the test.

.SS Writing 'local'
Create a source file (say local.cpp), include the appropriate header files, 
one containing latency scenario, other one for 0MQ transport. Write dummy main 
routine (paths to header files may depend on your installation):
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
#include "perf/transports/zmq_transport.hpp"
#include "perf/tests/scenarios/lat.hpp"

int main (void)
{
    return 0;
}
.fi
\fP
.RE
.PP
In the main routine you should initialise transport and call appropriate 
function (local_lat) from appropriate scenario header file (lat.hpp). 
Looking at \fBzmq\-transport\fR(7) object you'll find out that you need to 
supply following information when initialising it:
.PP
.RS 4
* Hostname or IP address of the zmq_server? (10.0.0.1)
.br
* Bind to existing exchange and queue or to create them by itself? (create)
.br
* What is the name of exchange being created? (E0)
.br
* What is the name of queue being created? (Q0)
.br
* Which network interface should be used for exchange? (10.0.0.1:5672)
.br
* Which network interface should be used for queue? (10.0.0.1:5673)
.RE
.PP
When calling local_lat function from scenario header file lat.hpp following 
parameters should be known:
.PP
.RS 4
* What is the size of the message? (6B)
.br
* How many messages are going to be send / received? (50000)
.RE
.PP
Deciding on the initialisation arguments we can write the following code:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
#include "perf/transports/zmq_transport.hpp"
#include "perf/tests/scenarios/lat.hpp"

int main (void) {

    const char *global_locator = "10.0.0.1";

    bool bind = false ; //  Create exchange & queue
    const char *queue_name = "Q0";
    const char *queue_iface = "10.0.0.1:5673";
    const char *exchange_name = "E0";
    const char *exchange_iface = "10.0.0.1:5672";

    int msg_count = 50000;
    size_t msg_size = 6;
 
    //  Initialise transport
    perf::i_transport *transport = new perf::zmq_t (global_locator, 
        bind, exchange_name, queue_name, exchange_iface, queue_iface);

    //  Do the job
    perf::local_lat (transport, msg_size, msg_count);

    return 0;
}
.fi
\fP
.RE
.SS Writing 'remote'
Similarly to 'local' program, you should initialise transport and call 
appropriate function (remote_lat) from appropriate scenario header file 
(lat.hpp) in the main routine of 'remote'. The transport has to be the 
same for local and remote. To initialize transport we need following 
information:
.PP
.RS 4
* Hostname or IP address of the zmq_server? (10.0.0.1)
.br
* Bind to existing exchange and queue or to create them by itself? (bind to existing)
.br
* What is the name of exchange to bind to? (E0)
.br
* What is the name of queue to bind? (Q0)
.RE
.PP
When calling remote_lat function from scenario header file lat.hpp following 
parameters should be known:
.PP
.RS 4
* What is the size of the message? (6B)
.br
* How many messages are going to be received/send? (50000)
.RE
.PP
Now you can write the 'remote' program. Create a source file (say remote.cpp), 
include the appropriate header files (one containing latency scenario, other 
one for 0MQ transport). Initialize transport and call proper function from 
scenario header file (note that paths to header files may depend on your 
installation):
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
#include "perf/transports/zmq_transport.hpp"
#include "perf/tests/scenarios/lat.hpp"

int main (void) {

    const char *global_locator = "10.0.0.1";

    bool bind = true ; //  bind to exchange & queue
    const char *queue_name = "Q0";
    const char *exchange_name = "E0";

    int msg_count = 50000;
    size_t msg_size = 6;

    //  Initialise transport
    perf::i_transport *transport = new perf::zmq_t (global_locator, 
        bind, exchange_name, queue_name, NULL, NULL);

    //  Do the job
    perf::remote_lat (transport, msg_size, msg_count);

    return 0;
}
.fi
\fP
.RE
.SS Compiling the scenario
In a case of identical hosts we can compile both binaries on a single host and 
distribute it to the other host afterwards. Otherwise we have to build it on 
both system independently.
.PP
Compilation options depend on used transport. According to 
\fBzmq\-transport\fR(7) build specifications it is necessary to link with 
pthreads and 0MQ library. For g++ compiler and 0MQ transport local.cpp and 
remote.cpp should be compiled in following way (note that 0MQ libraries and 
header files has to be installed):
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ g++ local.cpp -o local -lpthread -lzmq
$ g++ remote.cpp -o remote -lpthread -lzmq
.fi
\fP
.RE
.SS Running the scenario
To run the scenario, \fBzmq_server\fR(1) has to be started first on local host 
(10.0.0.1):
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ zmq_server
.fi
\fP
.RE
Start the local binary on local host (10.0.0.1):
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./local
.fi
\fP
.RE
Then start the remote binary on the remote machine:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./remote
.fi
\fP
.RE
Output from local binary should show your average latency:
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
Your average latency is 45.15 [us]
.fi
\fP
.RE
.SS Postprocessing
For statistical postprocessing latency scenario creates tests.dat file on local
side, each test run adds separate line.
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ more tests.dat
0,50000,6,4515,45.15
.fi
\fP
.RE
Columns in the file are arranged as follows: 0, roundtrip count, msg size [B],
test time [ms], latency [us].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR zmq_server (1), 
.BR zmq\-transport (7), 
.BR zmq\-throughput (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Pavol Malosek <malosek at fastmq dot com>
