.TH zmq 7 "" "(c)2007-2009 FastMQ Inc." "0MQ User Manuals"
.SH NAME
0MQ \- thin messaging implementation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
.nf
#include <zmq.hpp>
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
0MQ is an extensible middleware framework.
.SH MULTI-PROTOCOL SUPPORT
0MQ/0.5 allows for different transport-level and MOM-level protocols. To keep backward compatibility original 0MQ backend protocol over TCP was made default. You can specify the global object location in the old way, say "eth0:5555". However, this is now considered only an abbreviated version of full object location, i.e. "bp/tcp://eth0:5555".
.IP "\fBTCP/IP protocol\fP"
.RS
.TP 10
.I Format:
bp/tcp://interface_name_or_ip_address:port
.TP 
Examples: bp/tcp://eth0:5555 or bp/tcp://192.168.1.1:5555
.RE
.IP "\fBSCTP protocol\fP"
.RS
.TP 10
.I Format:
sctp://interface_name_or_ip_address:port
.TP 
Examples: sctp://eth0:5555 or sctp://192.168.1.2:5555
.RE
.IP "\fBAMQP protocol\fP"
.RS
.TP 10
.I Format:
amqp://broker_ip_address:port
.TP 
Example:  amqp://192.168.1.3:5555
.RE
.IP "\fBOpenPGM\fP"
.RS
.TP 10
.I Format:
bp/pgm://interface_name;multicast_group:port
.BR
bp/pgm://udp:interface_name;multicast_group:port for UDP encapsulation.
.TP 
Example:  bp/pgm://eth0;226.0.0.1:7501
.RE
.SH WEB PAGE
Documentation related to 0MQ project can be found on www.zeromq.org.
.SH MAILING LIST
0MQ has mailing list which can be reached at
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.PD
\fB<zeromq-dev@lists.zeromq.org>\fP
General discusion on the 0MQ project
.PP
For subscription information, see the website.
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Sustrik <sustrik at fastmq dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR zmq_server (1),
.BR zmq::locator_t (3),
.BR zmq::api_thread_t (3),
.BR zmq::io_thread_t (3),
.BR zmq::dispatcher_t (3),
.BR zmq::message_t (3),
.BR zmq::select_thread_t (3),
.BR zmq::poll_thread_t (3),
.BR zmq::epoll_thread_t (3),
.BR zmq::devpoll_thread_t (3),
.BR zmq::kqueue_thread_t (3),
.BR zmq::set_error_handler (3)

