.TH estimate_cpu_freq 1 "23. march 2009" "(c)2007\-2009 FastMQ Inc." "0MQ User \
Manuals"
.SH NAME
estimate_cpu_freq \- CPU frequency estimator 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B estimate_cpu_freq
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is used to measure CPU frequency with high precision. Measured 
value can be used to define PERF_CPU_FREQUENCY macro as described in time.hpp 
documentation. CPU frequency is measured in two ways:
.RS 4
.TP
.B during busy loop 
.TP
.B during sleep 
.RE
.PP
If results from measurements differs more than 10% program returns error. 
Frequency difference can be caused by some kernel power saving measures 
therefore all CPU frequency lowering "enhancements" should be turned off.
.PP
Note that the frequency measurement can be build only on x86 platforms that 
support RDTSC instruction.
.SH BUILDING IT
On x86 platform estimate_cpu_freq binary is compiled automatically during the 
build process, however you have to run ./configure with \-with\-perf switch. 
/configure summary should look like (have a look at CPU frequency estimator 
utility status):
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./configure --with-perf
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for gawk... no

 ... etc ...

0MQ install dir: /usr/local

Utilities:
  cpu frequency estimator: yes

Addons:
  performance tests: yes (gettime)
  camera example: no
  stock exchange example: no
  chartoom example: no
.fi
\fP
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
$ ./estimate_cpu_freq
CPU frequency measured with busy loop: 3000045263 [Hz]
CPU frequency measured with sleep: 3000045063 [Hz]

Please export CXXFLAGS=-DPERF_CPU_FREQUENCY=3000045163
and run configure and make in the top of the source tree again.
.fi
\fP
.RE
.SH LOCATION
.RS 4
\f(CR
.nf
perf/helpers/estimate_cpu_freq.cpp
.fi
\fP
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
zmq-tests-build\|(7), zmq-tests\|(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Pavol Malosek <malosek at fastmq dot com>
